---
title: "19 Timeless Reads That Will Make You A Better Digital Marketer"
draft: false
author: "Eytan"
type: "posts"
date: "2017-08-02"
tags: [Marketing, Books]


---
_*This post is regularly updated. It’s now up to 19._

The internet is packed with [hordes of marketers](https://www.buchman.co.il/life-for-marketers-is-about-to-get-harder-heres-why/) marketing to marketers about marketing. Which sucks when you’re trying to up your game.

But every once in a while, I come across an article, book, or slide deck that actually educates, with crystal-clear pragmatic takeaways.

And I love them.

So when I made the reading list for a recent [content marketing course](https://aleph.vc/can-aleph-help-you-make-aliya-and-find-work-heck-yeah-find-out-how-7da921998569) I taught, I filtered out the fluff and stuck with the gold. So in no particular order, here’s my list of required digital marketing reading.

And no, not every item here is *The Marketing Bible*. But every single thing
will help you market better. I promise.

## The List
### [What is Customer Jobs? What is Jobs to be Done?](https://medium.com/when-coffee-and-kale-compete/2-what-is-jobs-to-be-done-jtbd-796b82081cca)

**Blog post and book (with free PDF version!) by Alan Klement**

Job To Be Done is a brilliant way to look at what your prospects actually
need, helping your craft the story.

* * *

### [Pirate Metrics](https://www.slideshare.net/dmc500hats/startup-metrics-for-pirates-long-version)

**Slide deck by Dave McClure**

Any decent marketing funnel relies on user lifecycles and funnels. Dave’s Pirate Metrics are the gold standard.

* * *

### [Traction](https://www.amazon.com/Traction-Startup-Achieve-Explosive-Customer/dp/1591848369)

**Book by Gabriel Weinberg & Justin Mares (first 3 chapters are free!)**

There are a lot of ways to market. Weinberg and Mares use real-life examples
to walk readers through 19 different channels for marketing, as well as a low-
barrier approach to find the right one.

* * *

### [Growth Hacker Marketing](https://www.amazon.com/Growth-Hacker-Marketing-Primer-Advertising/dp/1591847389/)

**Book by Ryan Holiday**

Gem of a quick read for dipping your toes in real growth hacking, from the
principles up.

* * *

### [Permission Marketing](https://www.amazon.com/Permission-Marketing-Turning-Strangers-Customers/dp/0684856360/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1495562898&sr=1-1&keywords=permission+marketing)

**Book by Seth Godin**

Godin’s book on permission marketing was a precursor for the explosion of
inbound marketing, focused on forging a relationship with prospects so that
not only do you get in the door, they open it for you.

* * *

### [Purple Cow](https://www.amazon.com/Purple-Cow-New-Transform-Remarkable/dp/1591843170)

**Another book by Seth Godin**

When you’re driving through a pasture, you’ll always notice the Purple Cow.
Trust me.

* * *

### [The Lean Startup Methodology](http://theleanstartup.com/principles)

**Post and Book by Eric Reis**

The methodology pervasive in tech for building, measuring and iterating on
startups is born to go hand in hand with iterative, adaptive marketing.

* * *

### [How Upworthy makes things go viral](https://www.slideshare.net/Upworthy/how-to-make-that-one-thing-go-viral-just-kidding)

**Slide deck by Upworthy**

Fantastic case study into how methodical testing makes things take off. Also,
how two interns schooled the Upworthy team.

* * *

### [What Is Public Narrative (and Storytelling 101)](https://projects.iq.harvard.edu/files/ganzorganizing/files/what_is_public_narrative.pdf)

**Academic article by Marshall Ganz**

An incredible read from an incredibley popular Harvard Communication 101
course.

* * *

### [Copywriting Formulas](https://blog.bufferapp.com/copywriting-formulas)

**Blog post by Buffer**

Writing is hard. Take a look at some of the most popular frameworks for
writing an article. Or magazine ads. Or movies. Or Laffy Taffy jokes. Or
anything, really.

* * *

### [Influence: The Psychology of Persuasion](https://www.amazon.com/Influence-Psychology-Persuasion-Robert-Cialdini/dp/006124189X)

**Book by Dr Robert Cialdini**

This is cited by every content marketer at some point…but the principles at
play in this book do exist. Just don’t be evil about it, mmmkay?

* * *

### [Made to Stick: Why Some Ideas Work](http://heathbrothers.com/books/made-to-stick/)

**Book by Dan and Chip Heath**

Beyond the fact that the authors rock at content marketing, this book provides
some great insights into why some ideas (and marketing strategies) work when
others don’t.

* * *

### [Growing Mint to 1 Million Users](https://okdork.com/quant-based-marketing-for-pre-launch-start-ups/)

**Blog post by Noah Kagan**

Getting started is always difficult. Kagan provides a fantastic window into
taking a huge goal (launch a killer app) and breaking it into smaller,
achievable steps.

* * *

### [Brian Balfour’s Growth Machine](https://www.slideshare.net/heavybit/brian-balfour-building-a-growth-machine)

**Slide deck by Brian Balfour**

What if there was a framework that you could implement in order to actually
control and track your growth experiments? What if? Happy birthday.

* * *

### [How to Make an NPR Podcast](http://okdork.com/how-to-make-a-podcast/)

**Blog post and podcast by Noah Kagan**

Find yourself drawn into NPR podcasts? Me too. It’s because they know how to
formulate a story. Read the article, download the podcast.

* * *

### [Growth Hacker is the new VP Marketing](https://andrewchen.co/how-to-be-a-growth-hacker-an-airbnbcraigslist-case-study/)

**Article (fine, manifesto) by Andrew Chen**

The article that kicked off what being a growth hacker is. The term is
overused…but the ideas live on.

* * *

### [Why Content Marketing Fails](https://www.slideshare.net/randfish/why-content-marketing-fails)

**Slide deck by Rand Fishkin**

86 slides that show why so many content marketers fall flat on their face

* * *

### [The Three-Hour Brand Sprint](https://library.gv.com/the-three-hour-brand-sprint-3ccabf4b768a)**

**Article by [Jake Knapp](https://medium.com/u/f230699aec44)**

Branding is complicated. But this three hour brand sprint is a brilliant way
to get quick results. Good enough for Coca-Cola? Probably not. Good way to get
started for your startup? Definitely.

86 slides that show why so many content marketers fall flat on their face

* * *

### [How to Build a Minimum Loveable Product**](https://medium.com/the-happy-startup-school/beyond-mvp-10-steps-to-make-your-product-minimum-loveable-51800164ae0c)

**Article by [Laurence McCahill](https://medium.com/@welovelean)**

There’s a lot of attention given to the lean startup. But ignoring the
customer experience with a lean product is a sure-fire recipe to land flat on
your face. McCahill provides 10 tips for creating what he calls a Minimum
Loveable Product. Worth a read.

Next up, my list of marketing email newsletters that I read before I read
emails from my mom.

Drop your email below to make sure you get it when it goes live. It’s a doozy.

---