---
title: "Questions, Not Answers: Keeping Marketing On Track"
draft: false
author: "Eytan"
type: "posts"
date: "2016-10-20"
---
_TL;DR: Real progress comes from clearly defined obstacles or problems.
Challenging working assumptions with fundamental questions on a regular basis
is an incredible way to stay focused._

There’s nothing uniquely 21st century about innovation, or technologically-
driven efficiency. Even hockey-stick growth has been around for over two
centuries.

![Graph via OurWorldInData](questions-not-answers-keeping-marketing-track.png)

And while there was a less espresso involved, the type of people behind
innovation hasn’t changed. The industrial revolution, which kick-started
global growth, wasn’t primarily driven by scientists like Isaac Newton. It
came from people in the factories, not laboratories, contending with real-life
problems.

According to [Matt Ridley](http://www.rationaloptimist.com/), during the
industrial revolution, “ _scientists were the beneficiaries of new technology,
much more than they were the benefactors_.”

Yarn prices fell through the roof because of the [spinning
jenny](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spinning_jenny), which was invented by a
weaver. The steam engine, invented to remove water from tin mines, was created
by four developers, three of whom had **zero** scientific background.

Entrepreneurs look at obstacles and see a sign that says “ _fix me_ “. There’s
a glaring problem that they encounter in their day-to-day work…and they know
that something can be done about.

> “If I had an hour to solve a problem and my life depended on it, I would use
> the first 55 minutes determining the proper question to ask, for once I know
> the proper question, I could solve the problem in less than five minutes.”
>
> _Albert Einstein_

Working at a startup, means plugging away alone. Despite all-hands meetings
and regular discussion sessions, at the end of the day, you do you. You decide
what works, what to prioritize and what to change. And then you go at it full
steam. Stopping yourself and asking the right questions is critical – it puts
up a big f**king stop sign that screams “why?!”.

### HOW THE RIGHT QUESTIONS CHANGED DROPBOX

Dropbox’s legendary referral program was the result of three questions.

**Question #1:** Drew Houstan at Dropbox looked at user acquisition cost and
asked “ _is this working_ “? At [$300/user for a $99/year
product](http://www.slideshare.net/gueste94e4c/dropbox-startup-lessons-
learned-3836587/19-Cost_per_acquisition_233388), it wasn’t.

**Question #2:** Then THEY looked at their user base and asked “ _when do
prospects actually look for us_ “? Since this was a new product category,
customers _weren’t_ actually looking for them – they were hearing about
Dropbox from friends.

**Question #3:** “ _How do we tap into that_ “? Friends hear about Dropbox
from friends. So Dropbox incentivized people to tell their friends about how
awesome Dropbox was.

It worked.

In 15 months, **Dropbox shot from 100,000 users to 4 million**. [55% of those
signups](http://www.slideshare.net/gueste94e4c/dropbox-startup-lessons-
learned-3836587/32-Results_ulliSeptember_2008_100000_registered) came from
viral features.

## GETTING ACTIONABLE

I regularly schedule a 30 minute window into my week to challenge myself on
both high and low level issues. The steam engine was the result of a concrete
issue. With digital marketing, you need focus to identify those concrete
problems. Here are some of the questions that I try to regularly ask myself:

  1. **Who is my target?** Who am I going after? What is the buyer persona? Am I going after the right audience? Is it defined? Am I selling a solution to high-level managers when it’s really a landswell effect led by actual sales teams that will help me penetrate the market (ala [Yammer](http://mashable.com/2010/10/21/yammer-growth/#bNkaYylSSkqE))?
  2. **What does my target want?** Do I understand their needs?
  3. **Where is my target?** Do I have the right channels? Am I messaging right on those channels? What’s the best way to get to him?
  4. **How am I helping him?** When I look at his needs and my marketing efforts, am I ensuring that I am helping him at every step of the way? Does my content provide value? Am I pushing him into a funnel for something he doesn’t want?
  5. **How does my target conceptualize my product?** Do I understand how they _conceptualize their own need_. We spent months at Freightos trying to sell “instant freight quoting technology” to freight companies. When we asked our best sponsor at a huge company what he was looking for, he called it “freight rate management” technology. Right buyer, right value, wrong language.
  6. **What am I tracking?** How am I ensuring that what I’m doing is working? What am I tracking? Is the KPI that I found actually representative of what I’m trying to measure? For years, I was tracking homepage visits as a mark of brand visibility (a notoriously difficult thing to track regardless). Over time, I shifted over to earned press mentions and branded organic traffic search terms. I’m still working on it.
  7. **What can I cut out?** It’s tempting to constantly add more acquisition channels, content ideas, events…anything. At some point, you lose focus. For us, social media wasn’t converting into a huge pipeline…challenging ourselves into honestly assessing the channel meant less time wasted on it.

## THE BOTTOM LINE

I adore reading about marketing online. I love
[GrowthHackers](https://growthhackers.com/),
[Inbound.org](http://www.inbound.org/) and – my new personal favorite –
[zest](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/zestis/lgbbbmmegpehafpempogpgacjnfcbekj).
But a so many articles today are quick solutions ( _“10 ways to optimize CRO”_
or _“5 awesome email subject lines”_ ). The front three pages of those sites
alone offer **505** tips, tricks, examples and templates, based solely on the
headlines with numbers.

That’s 505 answers that are being viewed without specific questions in mind.
Which is totally fine for casual browsing or random strokes of inspiration.
But it’s not how you methodically scale a marketing machine.

Asking the right question ensures that you’re consuming the right content. It
ensures that your team is aligned on the correct metric. It guarantees that
you relentlessly pursue a target and make it happen. That you don’t rest until
you get that steam engine, spin that cotton or pick the field.

Questions and obstacles changed modern commerce, gave us cellphones, the Bunny
Rabbit wine opener and – yes – the spinning jenny. And they can make sure
you’re working right.

What questions do you ask yourself?

